# iRfcb 0.5.0

## New features:
* Added a `NEWS.md` file to track changes to the package.
* New functions: `ifcb_download_dashboard_data()`, `ifcb_download_whoi_plankton()`, and `ifcb_prepare_whoi_plankton()`.
* New vignette: `vignette("whoi-plankton-data-integration")`.
* `iRfcb` now allows to automatically use a Python virtual environment when the package is loaded by set the environment variable `USE_IRFCB_PYTHON`.
* `ifcb_extract_pngs()`, `ifcb_extract_classified_images()` and `ifcb_extract_annotated_images()` can now extract images with a scale bar (#42).
* `ifcb_is_near_land()` now returns a plot if the argument `plot` is set to `TRUE`. The function also downloads the default NE land polygons instead of including them in `iRfcb`.
* `ifcb_create_empty_manual_file()` now allows a complete, custom classlist instead of a single value.

## Bug fixes:
* `ifcb_read_hdr_data()` now handles data generated by IFCB Aquire 1.x.x.x correctly (#41).
* `ifcb_convert_filenames()` now runs more efficiently and handles data generated by IFCB1-6 with the format "IFCB1_2010_309_192918" (#40). 
* `ifcb_read_mat()` now returns data in the same structure as `R.matlab::readMat()` (#50).

## Deprecated
* `ifcb_summarize_png_data()` was deprecated in 0.3.11 and is now defunct.
* The argument `ifcb_annotate_batch(adc_folder = )` is now deprecated and replaced by `ifcb_annotate_batch(adc_files = )`.
* The argument `ifcb_create_empty_manual_file(unclassified_id = )` is now deprecated and replaced by `ifcb_create_empty_manual_file(classlist = )`.
* The argument `ifcb_is_near_land(utm_zone = )` is now deprecated and is instead calculated from the median longitude.

# iRfcb 0.4.3

First CRAN release
