# Correct Annotations in MATLAB Classlist Files

This function corrects annotations in MATLAB classlist files located in
a specified manual folder, generated by the code in the `ifcb-analysis`
repository (Sosik and Olson 2007). It replaces the class ID of specified
regions of interest (ROIs) in the classlist files based on a correction
file or a character vector.

## Usage

``` r
ifcb_correct_annotation(
  manual_folder,
  out_folder,
  correction = NULL,
  correct_classid,
  do_compression = TRUE,
  correction_file = deprecated()
)
```

## Arguments

- manual_folder:

  A character string specifying the path to the folder containing the
  original MAT classlist files to be updated.

- out_folder:

  A character string specifying the path to the folder where updated MAT
  classlist files will be saved.

- correction:

  Either a character string specifying the path to the correction file,
  or a character vector containing image filenames to be corrected. If a
  file is provided, it should have a column named `image_filename`. If a
  character vector is provided, it will be treated as a direct list of
  image filenames.

- correct_classid:

  An integer specifying the class ID to use for corrections.

- do_compression:

  A logical value indicating whether to compress the .mat file. Default
  is TRUE.

- correction_file:

  **\[deprecated\]** Use `correction` instead.

## Value

This function does not return any value; it updates the classlist files
in the specified output directory.

## Details

Python must be installed to use this function. The required python
packages can be installed in a virtual environment using
[`ifcb_py_install()`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_py_install.md).

The correction file is expected to contain at least one column:
`image_filename`, which includes the filenames of the images (with or
without additional trailing information). The function processes each
file, corrects the annotations, and saves the updated files in the
output folder.

If a character vector is provided as `correction`, it will be used
directly as a list of filenames for correction.

## References

Sosik, H. M. and Olson, R. J. (2007), Automated taxonomic classification
of phytoplankton sampled with imaging-in-flow cytometry. Limnol.
Oceanogr: Methods 5, 204–216.

## See also

[`ifcb_py_install`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_py_install.md)
<https://github.com/hsosik/ifcb-analysis>

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Initialize a python session if not already set up
ifcb_py_install()

# Correct class ID in .mat classlist files using a correction file
ifcb_correct_annotation("input/manual",
                        "output/manual",
                        "corrections.txt",
                        99)

# Correct class ID in .mat classlist files using a character vector of filenames
ifcb_correct_annotation("input/manual",
                        "output/manual",
                        c("D20230917T153755_IFCB134_01724.png",
                          "D20230917T110059_IFCB134_00380.png"),
                        99)
} # }
```
