# Extract Taxa Images from MATLAB Classified Sample

This function reads a MATLAB classified sample file (.mat) generated by
the `start_classify_batch_user_training` function from the
`ifcb-analysis` repository (Sosik and Olson 2007), extracts specified
taxa images from the corresponding ROI files, and saves each image in a
specified directory.

## Usage

``` r
ifcb_extract_classified_images(
  sample,
  classified_folder,
  roi_folder,
  out_folder,
  taxa = "All",
  threshold = "opt",
  overwrite = FALSE,
  scale_bar_um = NULL,
  scale_micron_factor = 1/3.4,
  scale_bar_position = "bottomright",
  scale_bar_color = "black",
  old_adc = FALSE,
  gamma = 1,
  use_python = FALSE,
  verbose = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- sample:

  A character string specifying the sample name.

- classified_folder:

  A character string specifying the directory containing the classified
  files.

- roi_folder:

  A character string specifying the directory containing the ROI files.

- out_folder:

  A character string specifying the directory to save the extracted
  images.

- taxa:

  A character string specifying the taxa to extract. Default is "All".

- threshold:

  A character string specifying the threshold to use ("none", "opt",
  "adhoc"). Default is "opt".

- overwrite:

  A logical value indicating whether to overwrite existing PNG files.
  Default is FALSE.

- scale_bar_um:

  An optional numeric value specifying the length of the scale bar in
  micrometers. If NULL, no scale bar is added.

- scale_micron_factor:

  A numeric value defining the conversion factor from micrometers to
  pixels. Defaults to 1/3.4.

- scale_bar_position:

  A character string specifying the position of the scale bar in the
  image. Options are `"topright"`, `"topleft"`, `"bottomright"`, or
  `"bottomleft"`. Defaults to `"bottomright"`.

- scale_bar_color:

  A character string specifying the scale bar color. Options are
  `"black"` or `"white"`. Defaults to `"black"`.

- old_adc:

  A logical value indicating whether the `adc` file is of the old format
  (samples from IFCB1-6, labeled "IFCBxxx_YYYY_DDD_HHMMSS"). Default is
  FALSE.

- gamma:

  A numeric value for gamma correction applied to the image. Default is
  1 (no correction). Values \<1 increase contrast in dark regions, while
  values \>1 decrease contrast.

- use_python:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, attempts to read the `.mat` file using a
  Python-based method. Default is `FALSE`.

- verbose:

  A logical value indicating whether to print progress messages. Default
  is TRUE.

## Value

No return value, called for side effects. Extracts and saves taxa images
to a directory.

## Details

If `use_python = TRUE`, the function tries to read the `.mat` file using
[`ifcb_read_mat()`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_read_mat.md),
which relies on `SciPy`. This approach may be faster than the default
approach using
[`R.matlab::readMat()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/R.matlab/man/readMat.html),
especially for large `.mat` files. To enable this functionality, ensure
Python is properly configured with the required dependencies. You can
initialize the Python environment and install necessary packages using
[`ifcb_py_install()`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_py_install.md).

If `use_python = FALSE` or if `SciPy` is not available, the function
falls back to using
[`R.matlab::readMat()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/R.matlab/man/readMat.html).

## References

Sosik, H. M. and Olson, R. J. (2007), Automated taxonomic classification
of phytoplankton sampled with imaging-in-flow cytometry. Limnol.
Oceanogr: Methods 5, 204–216.

## See also

[`ifcb_extract_pngs`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_extract_pngs.md)
[`ifcb_extract_annotated_images`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_extract_annotated_images.md)
<https://github.com/hsosik/ifcb-analysis>

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Define the parameters
sample <- "D20230311T092911_IFCB135"
classified_folder <- "path/to/classified_folder"
roi_folder <- "path/to/roi_folder"
out_folder <- "path/to/outputdir"
taxa <- "All"  # or specify a particular taxa
threshold <- "opt"  # or specify another threshold

# Extract taxa images from the classified sample
ifcb_extract_classified_images(sample, classified_folder, roi_folder, out_folder, taxa, threshold)
} # }
```
