# Count IFCB Annotations from .mat Files

This function processes `.mat` files, generated by the code in the
`ifcb-analysis` repository (Sosik and Olson 2007), to count and
summarize the annotations for each class based on the class2use
information provided in a file.

## Usage

``` r
ifcb_count_mat_annotations(
  manual_files,
  class2use_file,
  skip_class = NULL,
  sum_level = "class",
  mat_recursive = FALSE,
  use_python = FALSE
)
```

## Arguments

- manual_files:

  A character string specifying the path to the .mat files or a folder
  containing .mat files.

- class2use_file:

  A character string specifying the path to the file containing the
  class2use variable.

- skip_class:

  A numeric vector of class IDs or a character vector of class names to
  be excluded from the count. Default is NULL.

- sum_level:

  A character string specifying the level of summarization. Options:
  "sample", "roi" or "class" (default).

- mat_recursive:

  Logical. If TRUE, the function will search for MATLAB files
  recursively when `manual_files` is a folder. Default is FALSE.

- use_python:

  Logical. If `TRUE`, attempts to read the `.mat` file using a
  Python-based method. Default is `FALSE`.

## Value

A data frame with the total count of images per class, roi or per
sample.

## Details

If `use_python = TRUE`, the function tries to read the `.mat` file using
[`ifcb_read_mat()`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_read_mat.md),
which relies on `SciPy`. This approach may be faster than the default
approach using
[`R.matlab::readMat()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/R.matlab/man/readMat.html),
especially for large `.mat` files. To enable this functionality, ensure
Python is properly configured with the required dependencies. You can
initialize the Python environment and install necessary packages using
[`ifcb_py_install()`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_py_install.md).

If `use_python = FALSE` or if `SciPy` is not available, the function
falls back to using
[`R.matlab::readMat()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/R.matlab/man/readMat.html).

## References

Sosik, H. M. and Olson, R. J. (2007), Automated taxonomic classification
of phytoplankton sampled with imaging-in-flow cytometry. Limnol.
Oceanogr: Methods 5, 204–216.

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Count annotations excluding specific class IDs
result <- ifcb_count_mat_annotations("path/to/manual_folder",
                                     "path/to/class2use_file",
                                     skip_class = c(99, 100))
print(result)

# Count annotations excluding a specific class name
result <- ifcb_count_mat_annotations("path/to/manual_folder",
                                     "path/to/class2use_file",
                                     skip_class = "unclassified")
print(result)
} # }
```
