# Plot and Save IFCB PSD Data

This function generates and saves data about a dataset's Particle Size
Distribution (PSD) from Imaging FlowCytobot (IFCB) feature and hdr
files, which can be used for data quality assurance and quality control.

## Usage

``` r
ifcb_psd(
  feature_folder,
  hdr_folder,
  save_data = FALSE,
  output_file = NULL,
  plot_folder = NULL,
  use_marker = FALSE,
  start_fit = 10,
  r_sqr = 0.5,
  beads = NULL,
  bubbles = NULL,
  incomplete = NULL,
  missing_cells = NULL,
  biomass = NULL,
  bloom = NULL,
  humidity = NULL,
  micron_factor = 1/3.4
)
```

## Arguments

- feature_folder:

  The absolute path to a directory containing all of the v2 feature
  files for the dataset.

- hdr_folder:

  The absolute path to a directory containing all of the hdr files for
  the dataset.

- save_data:

  A boolean indicating whether to save data to CSV files. Default is
  FALSE.

- output_file:

  A string with the base file name for the .csv to use (including path).
  Set to NULL to not save data (default).

- plot_folder:

  The folder where graph images for each file will be saved. Set to NULL
  to not save graphs (default).

- use_marker:

  A boolean indicating whether to show markers on the plot. Default is
  FALSE.

- start_fit:

  An integer indicating the start fit value for the plot. Default is 10.

- r_sqr:

  The lower limit of acceptable R^2 values (any curves below it will be
  flagged). Default is 0.5.

- beads:

  The maximum multiplier for the curve fit. Any files with higher curve
  fit multipliers will be flagged as bead runs. If this argument is
  included, files with "runBeads" marked as TRUE in the header file will
  also be flagged as a bead run. Optional.

- bubbles:

  The minimum difference between the starting ESD and the ESD with the
  most targets. Any files with a difference higher than this threshold
  will be flagged as mostly bubbles. Optional.

- incomplete:

  A tuple with the minimum volume of cells (in c/L) and the minimum mL
  analyzed for a complete run. Any files with values below these
  thresholds will be flagged as incomplete. Optional.

- missing_cells:

  The minimum image count to trigger count ratio. Any files with lower
  ratios will be flagged as missing cells. Optional.

- biomass:

  The minimum number of targets in the most populated ESD bin for any
  given run. Any files with fewer targets will be flagged as having low
  biomass. Optional.

- bloom:

  The minimum difference between the starting ESD and the ESD with the
  most targets. Any files with a difference less than this threshold
  will be flagged as a bloom. Will likely be lower than the bubbles
  threshold. Optional.

- humidity:

  The maximum percent humidity. Any files with higher values will be
  flagged as high humidity. Optional.

- micron_factor:

  The conversion factor to microns. Default is 1/3.4.

## Value

A list with data, fits, and flags DataFrames if `save_data` is FALSE;
otherwise, NULL.

## Details

The PSD function originates from the `PSD` python repository (Hayashi et
al. in prep), which can be found at <https://github.com/kudelalab/PSD>.

Python must be installed to use this function. The required python
packages can be installed in a virtual environment using
[`ifcb_py_install()`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_py_install.md).

The function requires v2 features generated by the `ifcb-analysis`
MATLAB package (Sosik and Olson 2007) found at
<https://github.com/hsosik/ifcb-analysis>.

## References

Hayashi, K., Walton, J., Lie, A., Smith, J. and Kudela M. Using particle
size distribution (PSD) to automate imaging flow cytobot (IFCB) data
quality in coastal California, USA. In prep. Sosik, H. M. and Olson, R.
J. (2007), Automated taxonomic classification of phytoplankton sampled
with imaging-in-flow cytometry. Limnol. Oceanogr: Methods 5, 204–216.

## See also

[`ifcb_py_install`](https://europeanifcbgroup.github.io/iRfcb/reference/ifcb_py_install.md)
<https://github.com/kudelalab/PSD>
<https://github.com/hsosik/ifcb-analysis>

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Initialize the python session if not already set up
ifcb_py_install()

ifcb_psd(
  feature_folder = 'path/to/features',
  hdr_folder = 'path/to/hdr_data',
  save_data = TRUE,
  output_file = 'psd/svea_2021',
  plot_folder = 'psd/plots',
  use_marker = FALSE,
  start_fit = 13,
  r_sqr = 0.5,
  beads = 10 ** 9,
  bubbles = 150,
  incomplete = c(1500, 3),
  missing_cells = 0.7,
  biomass = 1000,
  bloom = 5,
  humidity = NULL,
  micron_factor = 1/3.0
)
} # }
```
